# Make a Thing

It's been some time since I last finished a project in Godot. Coming into this, I knew I wanted to refamiliarize myself with my tools, the process, or whatever you call it. I took the opportunity to re-read the docs, and let my mind loose onto the novel ideas it could harbour.

The first idea I had was an old one. One I remember distinctly coming up with and pitching to my partner while on cal approximetly 2 years ago. It involved polishing a dirty ball. Once cleaned, the game would celebrate with confetti and reward the player with a short ceremonious tune. However, the game would not close. Players could then continue polishing the ball, as more and more of the ball would be removed. The point being players would eventually polish the flesh off the ball, until the ball would simply vanish. When I first came up with idea, I had no idea how I would pull it off. I have no ability in shader programming, and at the time little ability in using Godot. So I kept the idea locked in the far reaching depths of my empty mind. With this project, and my technical growth, it finally felt time to bring this idea out of the woodwork and flesh it out. However, before putting any work, I decided to let my other ideas breath.

The second idea involved a mech suit. I'm a big fan of games that offer diegetic interactions with mechanical systems, and I've been wanting to make a game akin to Steel Battalion. Considering the short time frame at hand, I had to scope the idea down a bit. I wondered, "what if the entire game was just turning this thing on?", what if I made a game that only required the first step? Maybe the game could have a manual, one that only existed in game? Maybe the mech is ridicoulsly difficult to turn on and even has times sequences that must inputed perfectly. I don't know. The idea sounds fun on paper, and not to difficult to setup.

Last but not least, my fire idea. I mean fire alarm idea. This one came to me very last minute, which is funny considering it's the one I stuck with. Essentially, the idea was that I would place players in a house and give them the goal to find and turn off the fire alarm. The whole game would be a prank however, the joke being there is no actual fire alarm. The more I thought about it, the more I could see myself turning this into a horror game, with more and more fire alarms joining in and creating a cacophony of hell. Thinking about exploring this house, I started feeling nostalgic about the 8800 Blue Lick Road listing. This voicless infinite dripping in mystery and tar. I just really liked the idea of playing a game through the confines of a house listing. As you might have noticed I really enjoy thinking about how players interact with games, and much of my ideas come from exploring the relationship we have with this second reality.

With my nostalgia at hand, and having essentially dreamed up the code that would be required, I set haste for the development of this new and impossing project. I started working on the character controller. Again taking inspiration from generic house listings, I refactored some old code and made a very basic controller in a very small amount of time. Much of my time was spent debugging, or at least realizing that one of my UI nodes was eating up my mouse inputs, making it so my 3D collisions could not detect the mouse entering and exiting their shapes. Once all of that was sorted out, I finally had the beginnings of a game. 

The most 'obvious' part of this game is it's unique visual style. This is about when I came up with it. The idea came from browsing itch.io and looking at some random Decker projects. I've tried using Decker in the past, and am a big fan of it as an idea, but I've always found it very obtuse to use. The visual style Decker proposes is unmatched however, and so I attempted to emulate it with this project. What would it look like to browse an old house listing designed for technology that wasn't ready? I grabbed an old shader shared on the Godot Shaders website, one I had used in the past and I modified it to make it work for this project. I instantly fell in love with look and simply expanded it based on the artificial context I had provided.

By the time I had most components, I realized I had to make a house to explore. I sadly did not have the time to model my own, so I grabbed a very iconic house model used in a plethora of horror slop found online. I got a free fire alarm sound from freesound, added that in and the boom, I had a game. At least, I thought I did. As I added places to explore in the house, the empty stillness began getting to me. I immediatly called back to museums, and how they would setup a scene for you to explore, and then add sound effects to help bring you intro their stories. This game was missing that, a sense of place, a story to tell. So I started grabbing a bunch more sounds from freesound and placing them around the house. Adding stories, ideas, life to this house. The house may be empty, but it also didn't have to be. It was around here where I thought it'd be funny to add a scary easter egg, so I grabbed a free spooky model and snuck it in with a scary sound. I then added more scary sounds, help add tension to the game.

With the project done, I must say I am fairly proud of myself. I spent a total of 8 hours on this, and ended up coming up with a fairly weird and unique experience I don't think I would have ever come up with weren't for this class.